Cipher Text:
ZTU YHHJ OTORWK “HQATDHMW’U KTRWQQX: X AXOPMXR ZTUOHMS HB BHPM QWXRU” KTULPUUWU UWDWMXR XUVWLOU HB AXOPMW XAK BHLPUWU
UVWLTBTLXRRS HA FMXUU XAK IZXO TO TU BHM XATQXRU XAK KTBBWMWAO VWHVRW. ITOZHPO FMXUU RTBW IHPRK ZXDW QXAS VMHYRWQU,
XU YHOZ XATQXRU XAK ZPQXAU DWMS QPLZ AWWK HA TO OH RTDW BPRR RTDWU.  WCVWLOXOTHAU OZXO UHLTWOS ZXU TU LWAOWMWK HA
BHHK XAK OZXO TO TU VMHDTKWK TA XYPAKXALW BHM UOHMWU XAK QXMJWOU YPO ZHI TO FWOU OZWMW, AH HAW IHAKWMU. OZW XPOZHM
UOXMOU HPO YS QXJTAF X DWMS UVWLTBTL XAK XLPOW HYUWMDXOTHA OZXO QHUO VWHVRW UWW FMXUU XU X PATO, HAW WAOTOS OZXO TU X
VXMO XAK QHUORS, XA TAUTFATBTLXAO VTWLW HB OZW WADTMHAQWAO LHQVXMTAF OH OZW MWUO HB AXOPMW’U HYNWLOU.  IXRJTAF HA TO
WDWMS KXS, XA TAKTDTKPXR AWDWM MWXRRS UOHVU XAK OZTAJU IZXO FMXUU LHAUTUOU HB XAK ZHI TOU RTBW VMHLWUUWU XMW LXMMTWK
HPO. QTLZXWR VHRRXA QWAOTHAU OZXO OZW QXNHMTOS HB VWHVRW KH AHO UWW FMXUU OZW UXQW IXS X LHI UWWU TO. XU LHIU WXO TO
WDWMS KXS, OZWS ZXDW YWLHQW UVWLTXRTUOU TA OZW JTAKU HB FMXUU OZWMW XMW XAK IZXO UVWLTBTL HAWU UZHPRK AHO YW WXOWA. X
BXMQWM XRUH UWWU FMXUU XU X VXMO HB ZTU RTBW YWLXPUW ZW AWWKU TO BHM ZTU LHIU OH UPMDTDW XAK ZTU BXMQ OH VMHUVWM.
OZW XPOZHM FHWU HA OH OXRJ XYHPO ZTU DTUTO OH OZW BXMQ XAK ZHI ZW IXU WCVRXTAWK XYHPO OZW KTBBWMWAO OSVWU XAK UOMXAKU
HB FMXUU. VWHVRW IZH XMW LRHUWRS TADHRDWK ITOZ BXMQTAF XMW XRUH JAHIRWKFWXYRW XYHPO FMXUU XAK ZHI OH VMHVWMRS FMHI TO
(VHRRXA, 2007). OZW WCVWLOXOTHAU OZXO VWHVRW ZXDW OHIXMKU FMXUU XAK IZXO BXMQWMU OZTAJ, XMW DWMS KTBBWMWAO. VWHVRW
IXAO OH UWW FMXUU HA OZWTM RXIA OH RHHJ VMWOOS XAK OH LHDWM OZW QPK. BXMQWMU WCVWLO FMXUU OH YW IWRR FMHIA XAK BPRR
HB DTOXQTAU BHM OZWTM RTDW UOHLJ.  FMXUU TU X DWMS AWWKWK XAK WUUWAOTXR VXMO HB OZW BXMQ XAK OZW LZXTA HB VMHKPLOTHA
YWLXPUW UH QXAS UVWLTWU HB XATQXRU KWVWAK HA TO. FMXUU’ FMHIOZ XAK OZW LHIU’ WXOTAF ZXYTOU ZXDW QXAS “MPRWU XAK RXIU”
OZXO UPMMHPAK OZTU BHHK OSVW. “OZW RXI HB OZW UWLHAK YTOW” TU XA TQVHMOXAO HAW OH JWWV TA QTAK, XU OZW LHIU UZHPRK
AHO YW VWMQTOOWK OH LHQVRWOWRS WXO OZW FMXUU KHIA OH OZW MHHO (VHRRXA, 2007). TA LXUW OZTU KHWU ZXVVWA, XAK TO QHUORS
KHWU, OZW FMXUU YWLHQWU IWXJWAWK XAK UOHVU FMHITAF.  XBOWM OZW LHIU ZXDW OXJWA OZW BTMUO YTOW, FMXUU UZHPRK YW RWBO
XRHAW, XU TO ITRR ZXDW X LZXALW OH MWVRWATUZ TOUWRB XAK LHAOTAPW ZWXROZS FMHIOZ. OZW HVVHUTOW TO OMPW YWLXPUW TB OZW
FMXUU TU RWBO OH FMHI HPO QHMW OZXA TO TU UPVVHUWK OH, OZW XMWX YWLHQWU OHH “YPUZS” XAK LXAAHO YW PUWK BHM LHIU. X
BXMQWM, IZH TU OXJTAF LXMW HB ZTU XATQXRU XAK OZWTM BHHK, ITRR MHOXOW OH QXJW UPMW OZW XATQXRU XMW QHDWK OH X AWI
VXOLZ HB FMXUU XAK OZTU QXJWU BHM YWUO MWUPROU BHM FMXUU, XATQXRU XAK VWHVRW (VHRRXA, 2007).

Deciphered Text:
rsi book asadel “ownspohe’i lsdewwt: t ntafhtd rsiaohv ou uofh wetdi” lsimfiiei iepehtd ticemai ou ntafhe tnl uomfiei
icemsusmtddv on yhtii tnl grta sa si uoh tnswtdi tnl lsuuehena ceocde. gsarofa yhtii dsue gofdl rtpe wtnv chobdewi,
ti boar tnswtdi tnl rfwtni pehv wfmr neel on sa ao dspe ufdd dspei.  ejcematasoni arta iomseav rti si menaehel on
uool tnl arta sa si chopslel sn tbfnltnme uoh iaohei tnl wthkeai bfa rog sa yeai arehe, no one gonlehi. are tfaroh
iathai ofa bv wtksny t pehv icemsusm tnl tmfae obiehptason arta woia ceocde iee yhtii ti t fnsa, one enasav arta si t
ctha tnl woiadv, tn snisynsusmtna cseme ou are enpshonwena mowcthsny ao are heia ou ntafhe’i obxemai.  gtdksny on sa
epehv ltv, tn snlspslftd nepeh hetddv iaoci tnl arsnki grta yhtii monisiai ou tnl rog sai dsue chomeiiei the mthhsel
ofa. wsmrted coddtn wenasoni arta are wtxohsav ou ceocde lo noa iee yhtii are itwe gtv t mog ieei sa. ti mogi eta sa
epehv ltv, arev rtpe bemowe icemstdsiai sn are ksnli ou yhtii arehe the tnl grta icemsusm onei irofdl noa be etaen. t
uthweh tdio ieei yhtii ti t ctha ou rsi dsue bemtfie re neeli sa uoh rsi mogi ao ifhpspe tnl rsi uthw ao choiceh.
are tfaroh yoei on ao atdk tbofa rsi psisa ao are uthw tnl rog re gti ejcdtsnel tbofa are lsuuehena avcei tnl iahtnli
ou yhtii. ceocde gro the mdoiedv snpodpel gsar uthwsny the tdio knogdelyetbde tbofa yhtii tnl rog ao chocehdv yhog sa
(coddtn, 2007). are ejcematasoni arta ceocde rtpe aogthli yhtii tnl grta uthwehi arsnk, the pehv lsuuehena. ceocde
gtna ao iee yhtii on aresh dtgn ao dook cheaav tnl ao mopeh are wfl. uthwehi ejcema yhtii ao be gedd yhogn tnl ufdd
ou psatwsni uoh aresh dspe iaomk.  yhtii si t pehv neelel tnl eiienastd ctha ou are uthw tnl are mrtsn ou cholfmason
bemtfie io wtnv icemsei ou tnswtdi lecenl on sa. yhtii’ yhogar tnl are mogi’ etasny rtbsai rtpe wtnv “hfdei tnl dtgi”
arta ifhhofnl arsi uool avce. “are dtg ou are iemonl bsae” si tn swcohatna one ao keec sn wsnl, ti are mogi irofdl
noa be cehwsaael ao mowcdeaedv eta are yhtii logn ao are hooa (coddtn, 2007). sn mtie arsi loei rtccen, tnl sa woiadv
loei, are yhtii bemowei getkenel tnl iaoci yhogsny.  tuaeh are mogi rtpe atken are ushia bsae, yhtii irofdl be deua
tdone, ti sa gsdd rtpe t mrtnme ao hecdensir saiedu tnl monasnfe retdarv yhogar. are occoisae sa ahfe bemtfie su are
yhtii si deua ao yhog ofa wohe artn sa si ifccoiel ao, are thet bemowei aoo “bfirv” tnl mtnnoa be fiel uoh mogi. t
uthweh, gro si atksny mthe ou rsi tnswtdi tnl aresh uool, gsdd hoatae ao wtke ifhe are tnswtdi the wopel ao t neg
ctamr ou yhtii tnl arsi wtkei uoh beia heifdai uoh yhtii, tnswtdi tnl ceocde (coddtn, 2007).

Mapping:
A : O
B : Y
C : V
D : R
E : W
F : P
G : I
H : M
I : U
J : C
K : J
L : K
M : L
N : A
O : H
P : D
R : Z
S : T
T : X
U : B
V : S
W : Q
X : N
Y : F
